http/_symbols/name.md, before:

---
title: "NAME"
layout: symbol
---

# THE NAME — Word Study

## Symbolic Meaning

| Form | Meaning |
|------|---------|
| **One Word** | Covenant |
| **Two Words** | Covenant Relationship |
| **Sentence** | The binding covenant relationship and its associated promises—to invoke "the name" is to invoke the covenant and all it entails |

**Opposite**: Nameless / Covenant-less / Without relationship

---

## Two Approaches — Same Conclusion

This symbol was analyzed using two different methodologies that converged on the same answer. This demonstrates the robustness of the symbolic system.

### Approach A: Problem-Driven (Paradox Resolution)

This approach starts with **tensions and contradictions** that demand resolution.

#### Paradox 1: The Abraham Contradiction

> **Exodus 6:3** — "I appeared unto Abraham... by the name of God Almighty, but by **my name YHWH I was not known** to them"

Yet the word YHWH was clearly **spoken** to Abraham:

> **Genesis 15:7** — "I am **YHWH** who brought thee out of Ur"
> **Genesis 18:14** — "Is anything too hard for **YHWH**?"
> **Genesis 22:16** — "By myself I have sworn, declares **YHWH**"

**Resolution**: If Abraham heard and spoke the word YHWH, but the NAME was "not known" to him, then **NAME ≠ the word/pronunciation**. The NAME must be something deeper.

#### Paradox 2: The "Lord, Lord" Problem

> **John 14:13-14** — "Whatever you ask **in my name**, this I will do"

Yet prayers ending "in Jesus' name" often go unanswered. Either Jesus lied, or "in my name" means something more than magic words.

> **Matthew 7:22-23** — "Many will say to me in that day, **Lord, Lord**, have we not prophesied **in thy name**? and **in thy name** have cast out devils?... And then will I profess unto them, **I never knew you: depart from me, ye workers of lawlessness**."

**Resolution**: People who said the words and did miracles "in his name" were rejected as "workers of LAWLESSNESS." Therefore the NAME must be connected to **LAW/OBEDIENCE/COVENANT** — not just spoken words.

#### Paradox 3: "Calling on the Name" Chain

> **Romans 10:13** — "Whosoever shall call upon the **name** of the Lord shall be saved"

But if "calling on the name" = speaking words, this contradicts Matthew 7:22-23. Paul explains by quoting Deuteronomy:

> **Romans 10:6-8** (quoting Deut 30:11-14) — "The word is nigh thee, even in thy mouth, and in thy heart: that is, the word of faith, which we preach"
> **Deuteronomy 30:14** — "The word is very near you... **so that you can DO IT**"

**Resolution**: "Calling on the NAME" = believing and DOING the word = KEEPING COVENANT.

#### The Explicit Equation: NAME = ARK = COVENANT

> **2 Samuel 7:2** — David: "the **ark of God** dwells in a tent" (David wants to build a house for THE ARK)
> **2 Samuel 7:13** — God: "He shall build a house for **My NAME**" (God says the house is for THE NAME)

God **substitutes** "My NAME" for "the ark [of the covenant]" — revealing they represent the same thing: **THE COVENANT**.

#### Solomon's Prayer (1 Kings 8) — Concentrated Passage

"The NAME" appears **16 times** in Solomon's Temple dedication prayer, always in COVENANT context:
- Forgiveness of sins (covenant restoration)
- Turning/repentance (covenant return)
- Confessing the name (acknowledging covenant)
- Foreigners coming "for thy name's sake" (entering covenant)

**Conclusion (Approach A)**: NAME = COVENANT

---

### Approach B: Pattern-Based (Systematic Analysis)

This approach catalogues patterns across Scripture and tests proposed meanings.

#### Strong's Definitions

- **H8034 (שֵׁם / shem)**: "an appellation, as a mark or memorial of individuality; by implication **honor, authority, character**"
- **G3686 (ὄνομα / onoma)**: "a name (literally or figuratively) **(authority, character)**"

The definition includes "authority" — but what GRANTS authority?

#### Pattern 1: "In the NAME" = Invoking Authority/Relationship

| Verse | Pattern | What is Being Invoked? |
|-------|---------|----------------------|
| 1 Samuel 17:45 | "I come to thee **in the name** of the LORD of hosts" | David invokes the covenant between God and Israel |
| Acts 4:7 | "By what power, or by what **name**, have ye done this?" | Questioning the source of authority |
| 1 Cor 5:4 | "In the **name** of our Lord Jesus Christ... with the **power** of our Lord" | Name parallels power/authority |

#### Pattern 2: "For His NAME's Sake" = Covenant Obligation

| Verse | Pattern |
|-------|---------|
| Psalm 23:3 | "He leadeth me in paths of righteousness **for his name's sake**" |
| Psalm 106:8 | "He saved them **for his name's sake**, that he might make his mighty power to be known" |
| Ezekiel 36:22 | "I do not this for your sakes... but **for mine holy name's sake**" |

Why does God act "for his name's sake"? Because of His **covenant commitment** — His promise/word.

#### Pattern 3: "Baptized in the NAME" = Entering Relationship

> **Matthew 28:19** — "baptizing them **in the name** of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost"
> **Acts 2:38** — "be baptized every one of you **in the name** of Jesus Christ"

Baptism "in the name" = entering into COVENANT relationship.

#### Pattern 4: "No Other NAME" = No Other Covenant

> **Acts 4:12** — "Neither is there salvation in any other: for there is **none other name** under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved"

If NAME = mere word, there are many names. But if NAME = COVENANT, this makes sense: there is **no other covenant** through which we can be saved.

#### Connection to Existing Symbols

| Symbol | Meaning | Connection to NAME |
|--------|---------|-------------------|
| **ROCK** | Covenant (unchanging) | NAME invokes what ROCK represents |
| **FAITH** | Trusting obedience (to covenant) | "Believing on the NAME" = trusting the covenant |
| **FORNICATION** | Breaking covenant | "Profaning the NAME" = dishonoring the covenant |

#### The Relationship Test

When a symbol involves **invoking** something, ask: "What RELATIONSHIP is being invoked?"

- "In the NAME of the king" → What relationship grants this authority? → COVENANT (subject to king)
- "Believe on his NAME" → What is being trusted? → COVENANT (His promises)
- "For his NAME's sake" → What obligation is this? → COVENANT (His commitment)

**Conclusion (Approach B)**: NAME = COVENANT

---

## The Convergence

Two independent methodologies arrived at the same conclusion:

| Approach | Method | Conclusion |
|----------|--------|------------|
| **A (Problem-Driven)** | Resolve paradoxes, trace quotations, find explicit equations | NAME = Covenant |
| **B (Pattern-Based)** | Catalogue patterns, test meanings, connect to existing symbols | NAME = Covenant |

This convergence confirms the interpretation. The symbolic system is robust enough that different analytical paths arrive at the same destination.

---

## Two Dimensions

| Dimension | Meaning |
|-----------|---------|
| **IS** | The covenant relationship — the binding agreement and promises between parties |
| **DOES** | Binds — creates obligation; Identifies — marks who belongs to whom |

---

## Key Proof Texts

1. **Acts 4:12** — "Neither is there salvation in any other: for there is **none other name** under heaven"
   
   No other COVENANT provides salvation.

2. **2 Samuel 7:13** — "He shall build a house for **My Name**"
   
   Explicit substitution: NAME = ARK of the COVENANT.

3. **John 1:12** — "To them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his **name**"
   
   Believing on the NAME = trusting the COVENANT = becoming children (covenant family).

4. **Exodus 23:20-21** — "My **name** is in him... he will not pardon your transgression"
   
   The Messenger (Christ) has the NAME/COVENANT in Him.

5. **Matthew 7:22-23** — "In thy **name** have cast out devils... depart from me, ye workers of **lawlessness**"
   
   Saying the word without KEEPING COVENANT = rejected.

6. **Deuteronomy 28:58** — "If you are not careful to **do all the words of this law**... that you may fear this glorious and awesome **name**"
   
   Moses explicitly connects DOING TORAH to THE NAME.

---

## The Third Commandment Revisited

> **Exodus 20:7** — "Thou shalt not take the **name** of YHWH thy God **in vain**; for YHWH will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain."

If NAME = COVENANT, then:
- "Taking the name in vain" = **Making the covenant nothing** = Treating the covenant as empty/worthless
- This is not about pronunciation — it's about **living as if the covenant doesn't matter**
- "Workers of lawlessness" (Matt 7:23) are those who took His name in vain — they invoked the covenant while living in disobedience

---

## What Jesus Manifested

> **John 17:6** — "I have **manifested thy name** unto the men which thou gavest me"
> **John 17:26** — "I have declared unto them **thy name**, and will declare it"

Jesus didn't just pronounce a word — He **manifested the covenant** in His life, teaching, and obedience. He IS the Word made flesh, the Torah lived out, the covenant embodied.

---

## Implications for Prayer

> **John 14:13-14** — "Whatever you ask **in my name**, this I will do"

Asking "in His name" is NOT:
- Tacking magic words onto prayers
- Invoking a pronunciation

Asking "in His name" IS:
- Approaching within the COVENANT relationship
- Asking according to covenant promises
- Asking for forgiveness and restoration per Solomon's prayer (1 Kings 8)
- Asking as one who KEEPS covenant

---

## Conclusion

**THE NAME** represents **COVENANT** — the binding relationship, promises, and commitments between God and His people. 

- To invoke "the name" is to appeal to that covenant
- To profane "the name" is to dishonor the covenant
- To believe on "the name" is to trust the covenant
- To be baptized in "the name" is to enter covenant relationship
- To take "the name in vain" is to make the covenant nothing

This connects perfectly with the gospel: there is "no other NAME" because there is no other COVENANT through which we can be saved. Yeshua is the mediator of that covenant, the NAME embodied, the Word made flesh.

Commit message:

Add OIL, FRUIT, MARRIAGE symbols; refine BABYLON to Worldly Kingdom
Symbol additions:
- OIL = Proven Works (traced via production chain: olives pressed)
- FRUIT = Works/Deeds (explicit parallel in Galatians 5)
- MARRIAGE = Covenant Picture (God as husband, Israel as wife)

Symbol refinements:
- BABYLON: Changed from "Confusion/False System" to "Kingdom/Worldly Kingdom"
  - Key insight: brick (man-made) vs stone (God-given covenant)
  - Contrasts with Jerusalem/Zion (Heavenly Kingdom)
- FORNICATION: Added Redundancy Test (adultery = death, so ≠ sexual sin)

Methodology updates:
- Added executable 4-phase workflow (generate 3 candidates, test, compare, select)
- Added "Trace the Symbol's Origin" principle (production chain analysis)
- Added requirement to substitute ALL known symbols, not just candidate
- Added rejection filter for dictionary definitions/synonyms

Cross-linking:
- Added links between related symbol documents

Also: Strong's number search now opens definition panel directly

http/_symbols/name.md, after:

---
title: "NAME"
layout: symbol
---

# THE NAME — Word Study

## Symbolic Meaning

| Form | Meaning |
|------|---------|
| **One Word** | Covenant |
| **Two Words** | Covenant Relationship |
| **Sentence** | The binding covenant relationship and its associated promises—to invoke "the name" is to invoke the covenant and all it entails |

**Opposite**: Nameless / Covenant-less / Without relationship

---

## Two Approaches — Same Conclusion

This symbol was analyzed using two different methodologies that converged on the same answer. This demonstrates the robustness of the symbolic system.

### Approach A: Problem-Driven (Paradox Resolution)

This approach starts with **tensions and contradictions** that demand resolution.

#### Paradox 1: The Abraham Contradiction

> **Exodus 6:3** — "I appeared unto Abraham... by the name of God Almighty, but by **my name YHWH I was not known** to them"

Yet the word YHWH was clearly **spoken** to Abraham:

> **Genesis 15:7** — "I am **YHWH** who brought thee out of Ur"
> **Genesis 18:14** — "Is anything too hard for **YHWH**?"
> **Genesis 22:16** — "By myself I have sworn, declares **YHWH**"

**Resolution**: If Abraham heard and spoke the word YHWH, but the NAME was "not known" to him, then **NAME ≠ the word/pronunciation**. The NAME must be something deeper.

#### Paradox 2: The "Lord, Lord" Problem

> **John 14:13-14** — "Whatever you ask **in my name**, this I will do"

Yet prayers ending "in Jesus' name" often go unanswered. Either Jesus lied, or "in my name" means something more than magic words.

> **Matthew 7:22-23** — "Many will say to me in that day, **Lord, Lord**, have we not prophesied **in thy name**? and **in thy name** have cast out devils?... And then will I profess unto them, **I never knew you: depart from me, ye workers of lawlessness**."

**Resolution**: People who said the words and did miracles "in his name" were rejected as "workers of LAWLESSNESS." Therefore the NAME must be connected to **LAW/OBEDIENCE/COVENANT** — not just spoken words.

#### Paradox 3: "Calling on the Name" Chain

> **Romans 10:13** — "Whosoever shall call upon the **name** of the Lord shall be saved"

But if "calling on the name" = speaking words, this contradicts Matthew 7:22-23. Paul explains by quoting Deuteronomy:

> **Romans 10:6-8** (quoting Deut 30:11-14) — "The word is nigh thee, even in thy mouth, and in thy heart: that is, the word of faith, which we preach"
> **Deuteronomy 30:14** — "The word is very near you... **so that you can DO IT**"

**Resolution**: "Calling on the NAME" = believing and DOING the word = KEEPING COVENANT.

#### The Explicit Equation: NAME = ARK = COVENANT

> **2 Samuel 7:2** — David: "the **ark of God** dwells in a tent" (David wants to build a house for THE ARK)
> **2 Samuel 7:13** — God: "He shall build a house for **My NAME**" (God says the house is for THE NAME)

God **substitutes** "My NAME" for "the ark [of the covenant]" — revealing they represent the same thing: **THE COVENANT**.

#### Solomon's Prayer (1 Kings 8) — Concentrated Passage

"The NAME" appears **16 times** in Solomon's Temple dedication prayer, always in COVENANT context:
- Forgiveness of sins (covenant restoration)
- Turning/repentance (covenant return)
- Confessing the name (acknowledging covenant)
- Foreigners coming "for thy name's sake" (entering covenant)

**Conclusion (Approach A)**: NAME = COVENANT

---

### Approach B: Pattern-Based (Systematic Analysis)

This approach catalogues patterns across Scripture and tests proposed meanings.

#### Strong's Definitions

- **H8034 (שֵׁם / shem)**: "an appellation, as a mark or memorial of individuality; by implication **honor, authority, character**"
- **G3686 (ὄνομα / onoma)**: "a name (literally or figuratively) **(authority, character)**"

The definition includes "authority" — but what GRANTS authority?

#### Pattern 1: "In the NAME" = Invoking Authority/Relationship

| Verse | Pattern | What is Being Invoked? |
|-------|---------|----------------------|
| 1 Samuel 17:45 | "I come to thee **in the name** of the LORD of hosts" | David invokes the covenant between God and Israel |
| Acts 4:7 | "By what power, or by what **name**, have ye done this?" | Questioning the source of authority |
| 1 Cor 5:4 | "In the **name** of our Lord Jesus Christ... with the **power** of our Lord" | Name parallels power/authority |

#### Pattern 2: "For His NAME's Sake" = Covenant Obligation

| Verse | Pattern |
|-------|---------|
| Psalm 23:3 | "He leadeth me in paths of righteousness **for his name's sake**" |
| Psalm 106:8 | "He saved them **for his name's sake**, that he might make his mighty power to be known" |
| Ezekiel 36:22 | "I do not this for your sakes... but **for mine holy name's sake**" |

Why does God act "for his name's sake"? Because of His **covenant commitment** — His promise/word.

#### Pattern 3: "Baptized in the NAME" = Entering Relationship

> **Matthew 28:19** — "baptizing them **in the name** of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost"
> **Acts 2:38** — "be baptized every one of you **in the name** of Jesus Christ"

Baptism "in the name" = entering into COVENANT relationship.

#### Pattern 4: "No Other NAME" = No Other Covenant

> **Acts 4:12** — "Neither is there salvation in any other: for there is **none other name** under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved"

If NAME = mere word, there are many names. But if NAME = COVENANT, this makes sense: there is **no other covenant** through which we can be saved.

#### Connection to Existing Symbols

| Symbol | Meaning | Connection to NAME |
|--------|---------|-------------------|
| **[ROCK](/symbols/rock/)** | Covenant (unchanging) | NAME invokes what ROCK represents |
| **[FAITH](/symbols/faith/)** | Trusting obedience (to covenant) | "Believing on the NAME" = trusting the covenant |
| **[FORNICATION](/symbols/fornication/)** | Breaking covenant | "Profaning the NAME" = dishonoring the covenant |
| **[BABYLON](/symbols/babylon/)** | Worldly Kingdom | "Let us make us a NAME" — self-made covenant |
| **[WINGS](/symbols/wings/)** | Covenant Covering | "Fear my NAME... healing in his WINGS" (Mal 4:2) |
| **[MARRIAGE](/symbols/marriage/)** | Covenant Picture | Wife takes husband's NAME = enters covenant |

#### The Relationship Test

When a symbol involves **invoking** something, ask: "What RELATIONSHIP is being invoked?"

- "In the NAME of the king" → What relationship grants this authority? → COVENANT (subject to king)
- "Believe on his NAME" → What is being trusted? → COVENANT (His promises)
- "For his NAME's sake" → What obligation is this? → COVENANT (His commitment)

**Conclusion (Approach B)**: NAME = COVENANT

---

## The Convergence

Two independent methodologies arrived at the same conclusion:

| Approach | Method | Conclusion |
|----------|--------|------------|
| **A (Problem-Driven)** | Resolve paradoxes, trace quotations, find explicit equations | NAME = Covenant |
| **B (Pattern-Based)** | Catalogue patterns, test meanings, connect to existing symbols | NAME = Covenant |

This convergence confirms the interpretation. The symbolic system is robust enough that different analytical paths arrive at the same destination.

---

## Two Dimensions

| Dimension | Meaning |
|-----------|---------|
| **IS** | The covenant relationship — the binding agreement and promises between parties |
| **DOES** | Binds — creates obligation; Identifies — marks who belongs to whom |

---

## Key Proof Texts

1. **Acts 4:12** — "Neither is there salvation in any other: for there is **none other name** under heaven"
   
   No other COVENANT provides salvation.

2. **2 Samuel 7:13** — "He shall build a house for **My Name**"
   
   Explicit substitution: NAME = ARK of the COVENANT.

3. **John 1:12** — "To them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his **name**"
   
   Believing on the NAME = trusting the COVENANT = becoming children (covenant family).

4. **Exodus 23:20-21** — "My **name** is in him... he will not pardon your transgression"
   
   The Messenger (Christ) has the NAME/COVENANT in Him.

5. **Matthew 7:22-23** — "In thy **name** have cast out devils... depart from me, ye workers of **lawlessness**"
   
   Saying the word without KEEPING COVENANT = rejected.

6. **Deuteronomy 28:58** — "If you are not careful to **do all the words of this law**... that you may fear this glorious and awesome **name**"
   
   Moses explicitly connects DOING TORAH to THE NAME.

---

## The Third Commandment Revisited

> **Exodus 20:7** — "Thou shalt not take the **name** of YHWH thy God **in vain**; for YHWH will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain."

If NAME = COVENANT, then:
- "Taking the name in vain" = **Making the covenant nothing** = Treating the covenant as empty/worthless
- This is not about pronunciation — it's about **living as if the covenant doesn't matter**
- "Workers of lawlessness" (Matt 7:23) are those who took His name in vain — they invoked the covenant while living in disobedience

---

## What Jesus Manifested

> **John 17:6** — "I have **manifested thy name** unto the men which thou gavest me"
> **John 17:26** — "I have declared unto them **thy name**, and will declare it"

Jesus didn't just pronounce a word — He **manifested the covenant** in His life, teaching, and obedience. He IS the Word made flesh, the Torah lived out, the covenant embodied.

---

## Implications for Prayer

> **John 14:13-14** — "Whatever you ask **in my name**, this I will do"

Asking "in His name" is NOT:
- Tacking magic words onto prayers
- Invoking a pronunciation

Asking "in His name" IS:
- Approaching within the COVENANT relationship
- Asking according to covenant promises
- Asking for forgiveness and restoration per Solomon's prayer (1 Kings 8)
- Asking as one who KEEPS covenant

---

## Conclusion

**THE NAME** represents **COVENANT** — the binding relationship, promises, and commitments between God and His people. 

- To invoke "the name" is to appeal to that covenant
- To profane "the name" is to dishonor the covenant
- To believe on "the name" is to trust the covenant
- To be baptized in "the name" is to enter covenant relationship
- To take "the name in vain" is to make the covenant nothing

This connects perfectly with the gospel: there is "no other NAME" because there is no other COVENANT through which we can be saved. Yeshua is the mediator of that covenant, the NAME embodied, the Word made flesh.
