http/_symbols/wings.md, before:

---
title: "WINGS"
layout: symbol
---

# WINGS — Word Study

## Symbolic Meaning

| Form | Meaning |
|------|---------|
| **One Word** | Covenant |
| **Two Words** | Covenant Covering |
| **Sentence** | The protective covering of covenant relationship—to come "under wings" is to enter covenant; to "spread wings/skirt over" someone is to take them into covenant |

**Opposite**: Exposed / Uncovered / Outside covenant

---

## The Critical Discovery: Strong's Number H3671

The Hebrew word **כָּנָף (kanaph, H3671)** is translated as:
- **Wings** (of birds, cherubim)
- **Skirt** (of a garment)
- **Border/Corner** (of garments — where tzitzit go)
- **Quarters** (of a vesture)

This means "wings" and "skirt" are THE SAME WORD in Hebrew. English translations obscure this connection.

---

## The Explicit Definition — Ezekiel 16:8

> "Now when I passed by thee, and looked upon thee, behold, thy time was the time of love; and I **spread my skirt** (H3671) **over thee**, and covered thy nakedness: yea, I **sware unto thee**, and **ENTERED INTO A COVENANT** with thee, saith the Lord GOD, and **thou becamest mine**."

This is an EXPLICIT EQUATION:
- **Spreading wings/skirt over someone** = **Entering into covenant** with them
- The action of "covering" = covenant-making

---

## The Ruth Narrative — Same Word, Covenant Progression

| Chapter | Verse | Text | Meaning |
|---------|-------|------|---------|
| Ruth 2 | v.12 | "under whose **wings** (H3671) thou art come to trust" | Ruth came under GOD's covenant |
| Ruth 3 | v.9 | "spread therefore thy **skirt** (H3671) over thine handmaid; for thou art a near kinsman" | Ruth asks Boaz for MARRIAGE covenant |

**Same Hebrew word!** The narrative arc shows Ruth moving from trusting under God's covenant wings to asking the kinsman-redeemer (type of Christ) to take her into covenant marriage by spreading his "wing/skirt" over her.

---

## Pattern Analysis

### "Under Wings" = Covenant Protection

| Verse | Text | Context |
|-------|------|---------|
| **Psalm 17:8** | "hide me under the **shadow of thy wings**" | Refuge in covenant |
| **Psalm 36:7** | "the children of men put their trust **under the shadow of thy wings**" | Covenant trust |
| **Psalm 57:1** | "in the **shadow of thy wings** will I make my refuge" | Covenant refuge |
| **Psalm 63:7** | "in the **shadow of thy wings** will I rejoice" | Covenant joy |
| **Psalm 91:4** | "**under his wings** shalt thou trust" | Covenant trust |

### "Spread Wings/Skirt Over" = Covenant-Making

| Verse | Text | Context |
|-------|------|---------|
| **Ezekiel 16:8** | "I **spread my skirt over thee**... entered into a **covenant**" | God's covenant with Israel |
| **Ruth 3:9** | "**spread thy skirt** over me; for thou art a kinsman-redeemer" | Marriage covenant request |
| **Deuteronomy 22:30** | "shall not **discover** (uncover) **his father's skirt**" | Covenant violation |

### Cherubim Wings Cover the Covenant

| Verse | Text | Significance |
|-------|------|--------------|
| **Exodus 25:20** | "the cherubims shall... **cover** the mercy seat with their **wings**" | Wings cover the ark of COVENANT |
| **1 Kings 8:6-7** | "the ark of the **covenant**... **under the wings** of the cherubims" | Ark placed under wings |

The cherubim's wings **cover** the ark of the **covenant** — wings = covenant covering.

---

## The Tzitzit Connection

> **Numbers 15:38** — "make them fringes in the **borders** (H3671) of their garments"

The tzitzit (fringes) are placed on the **wings/corners** of the garment! Why?

> **Numbers 15:39-40** — "that ye may **remember all the commandments** of YHWH, and do them... be **holy unto your God**"

The WINGS of the garment carry COVENANT REMINDERS. The commandments (covenant law) are associated with the "wings" of the garment.

---

## The Healing in His Wings — Malachi 4:2

> "But unto you that fear **my NAME** shall the **Sun of righteousness** arise with **healing in his wings**"

Note the connection:
- Those who fear the **NAME** (= covenant)
- Receive **healing in his wings** (= covenant covering)

When the woman with the issue of blood touched the **hem** (Greek: kraspedon = border/fringe area = tzitzit area) of Jesus' garment, she was reaching for the **wings** — the covenant covering — and was healed (Matthew 9:20-21).

---

## The Offer Rejected — Matthew 23:37

> "O Jerusalem, Jerusalem... how often would I have gathered thy children together, even as a **hen gathereth her chickens under her wings**, and ye would not!"

Jesus offered to bring Jerusalem **under his wings** — into covenant protection — but they refused. The maternal imagery of a hen covering her chicks shows the protective, sheltering nature of covenant.

---

## Two Dimensions

| Dimension | Meaning |
|-----------|---------|
| **IS** | Covenant covering — the protective enclosure of relationship |
| **DOES** | Covers, protects — brings under covenant relationship |

---

## Connection to NAME

Both NAME and WINGS relate to covenant:

| Symbol | Aspect of Covenant |
|--------|-------------------|
| **NAME** | The covenant relationship itself — invoking the name invokes the covenant |
| **WINGS** | The covenant covering/protection — coming under wings is entering covenant protection |

Malachi 4:2 connects them: "fear my **NAME**... healing in his **WINGS**"

---

## Why This Was Hidden

English translations use "wings" for birds and "skirt" for garments — obscuring that they are the **same Hebrew word** (H3671). Without checking Strong's numbers, the connection between:
- Coming under God's "wings" (Ruth 2:12)
- Asking Boaz to spread his "skirt" (Ruth 3:9)
- God spreading His "skirt" to enter covenant (Ezekiel 16:8)

...would remain invisible.

**Lesson**: Always check Strong's numbers. Translation variations hide unified concepts.

---

## Conclusion

**WINGS** (H3671) = **Covenant Covering**

- Coming "under wings" = entering into covenant relationship/protection
- "Spreading wings/skirt over" someone = taking them into covenant
- The cherubim wings cover the ark of the COVENANT
- The tzitzit (covenant reminders) are on the "wings" of the garment
- "Healing in his wings" = healing through covenant

The same word encompasses bird wings, garment edges, and covenant covering — because in Hebrew thought, they are all expressions of the same concept: protective, covering relationship.

Commit message:

Add OIL, FRUIT, MARRIAGE symbols; refine BABYLON to Worldly Kingdom
Symbol additions:
- OIL = Proven Works (traced via production chain: olives pressed)
- FRUIT = Works/Deeds (explicit parallel in Galatians 5)
- MARRIAGE = Covenant Picture (God as husband, Israel as wife)

Symbol refinements:
- BABYLON: Changed from "Confusion/False System" to "Kingdom/Worldly Kingdom"
  - Key insight: brick (man-made) vs stone (God-given covenant)
  - Contrasts with Jerusalem/Zion (Heavenly Kingdom)
- FORNICATION: Added Redundancy Test (adultery = death, so ≠ sexual sin)

Methodology updates:
- Added executable 4-phase workflow (generate 3 candidates, test, compare, select)
- Added "Trace the Symbol's Origin" principle (production chain analysis)
- Added requirement to substitute ALL known symbols, not just candidate
- Added rejection filter for dictionary definitions/synonyms

Cross-linking:
- Added links between related symbol documents

Also: Strong's number search now opens definition panel directly

http/_symbols/wings.md, after:

---
title: "WINGS"
layout: symbol
---

# WINGS — Word Study

## Symbolic Meaning

| Form | Meaning |
|------|---------|
| **One Word** | Covenant |
| **Two Words** | Covenant Covering |
| **Sentence** | The protective covering of covenant relationship—to come "under wings" is to enter covenant; to "spread wings/skirt over" someone is to take them into covenant |

**Opposite**: Exposed / Uncovered / Outside covenant

---

## The Critical Discovery: Strong's Number H3671

The Hebrew word **כָּנָף (kanaph, H3671)** is translated as:
- **Wings** (of birds, cherubim)
- **Skirt** (of a garment)
- **Border/Corner** (of garments — where tzitzit go)
- **Quarters** (of a vesture)

This means "wings" and "skirt" are THE SAME WORD in Hebrew. English translations obscure this connection.

---

## The Explicit Definition — Ezekiel 16:8

> "Now when I passed by thee, and looked upon thee, behold, thy time was the time of love; and I **spread my skirt** (H3671) **over thee**, and covered thy nakedness: yea, I **sware unto thee**, and **ENTERED INTO A COVENANT** with thee, saith the Lord GOD, and **thou becamest mine**."

This is an EXPLICIT EQUATION:
- **Spreading wings/skirt over someone** = **Entering into covenant** with them
- The action of "covering" = covenant-making

---

## The Ruth Narrative — Same Word, Covenant Progression

| Chapter | Verse | Text | Meaning |
|---------|-------|------|---------|
| Ruth 2 | v.12 | "under whose **wings** (H3671) thou art come to trust" | Ruth came under GOD's covenant |
| Ruth 3 | v.9 | "spread therefore thy **skirt** (H3671) over thine handmaid; for thou art a near kinsman" | Ruth asks Boaz for MARRIAGE covenant |

**Same Hebrew word!** The narrative arc shows Ruth moving from trusting under God's covenant wings to asking the kinsman-redeemer (type of Christ) to take her into covenant marriage by spreading his "wing/skirt" over her.

---

## Pattern Analysis

### "Under Wings" = Covenant Protection

| Verse | Text | Context |
|-------|------|---------|
| **Psalm 17:8** | "hide me under the **shadow of thy wings**" | Refuge in covenant |
| **Psalm 36:7** | "the children of men put their trust **under the shadow of thy wings**" | Covenant trust |
| **Psalm 57:1** | "in the **shadow of thy wings** will I make my refuge" | Covenant refuge |
| **Psalm 63:7** | "in the **shadow of thy wings** will I rejoice" | Covenant joy |
| **Psalm 91:4** | "**under his wings** shalt thou trust" | Covenant trust |

### "Spread Wings/Skirt Over" = Covenant-Making

| Verse | Text | Context |
|-------|------|---------|
| **Ezekiel 16:8** | "I **spread my skirt over thee**... entered into a **covenant**" | God's covenant with Israel |
| **Ruth 3:9** | "**spread thy skirt** over me; for thou art a kinsman-redeemer" | Marriage covenant request |
| **Deuteronomy 22:30** | "shall not **discover** (uncover) **his father's skirt**" | Covenant violation |

### Cherubim Wings Cover the Covenant

| Verse | Text | Significance |
|-------|------|--------------|
| **Exodus 25:20** | "the cherubims shall... **cover** the mercy seat with their **wings**" | Wings cover the ark of COVENANT |
| **1 Kings 8:6-7** | "the ark of the **covenant**... **under the wings** of the cherubims" | Ark placed under wings |

The cherubim's wings **cover** the ark of the **covenant** — wings = covenant covering.

---

## The Tzitzit Connection

> **Numbers 15:38** — "make them fringes in the **borders** (H3671) of their garments"

The tzitzit (fringes) are placed on the **wings/corners** of the garment! Why?

> **Numbers 15:39-40** — "that ye may **remember all the commandments** of YHWH, and do them... be **holy unto your God**"

The WINGS of the garment carry COVENANT REMINDERS. The commandments (covenant law) are associated with the "wings" of the garment.

---

## The Healing in His Wings — Malachi 4:2

> "But unto you that fear **my NAME** shall the **Sun of righteousness** arise with **healing in his wings**"

Note the connection:
- Those who fear the **NAME** (= covenant)
- Receive **healing in his wings** (= covenant covering)

When the woman with the issue of blood touched the **hem** (Greek: kraspedon = border/fringe area = tzitzit area) of Jesus' garment, she was reaching for the **wings** — the covenant covering — and was healed (Matthew 9:20-21).

---

## The Offer Rejected — Matthew 23:37

> "O Jerusalem, Jerusalem... how often would I have gathered thy children together, even as a **hen gathereth her chickens under her wings**, and ye would not!"

Jesus offered to bring Jerusalem **under his wings** — into covenant protection — but they refused. The maternal imagery of a hen covering her chicks shows the protective, sheltering nature of covenant.

---

## Two Dimensions

| Dimension | Meaning |
|-----------|---------|
| **IS** | Covenant covering — the protective enclosure of relationship |
| **DOES** | Covers, protects — brings under covenant relationship |

---

## Connection to Other Symbols

Both [NAME](/symbols/name/) and WINGS relate to covenant:

| Symbol | Aspect of Covenant |
|--------|-------------------|
| **[NAME](/symbols/name/)** | The covenant relationship itself — invoking the name invokes the covenant |
| **WINGS** | The covenant covering/protection — coming under wings is entering covenant protection |
| **[EAGLE](/symbols/eagle/)** | Messenger/Angel — the one who bears on wings |
| **[MARRIAGE](/symbols/marriage/)** | Covenant picture — spreading wings/skirt over bride |

Malachi 4:2 connects them: "fear my **NAME**... healing in his **WINGS**"

---

## Why This Was Hidden

English translations use "wings" for birds and "skirt" for garments — obscuring that they are the **same Hebrew word** (H3671). Without checking Strong's numbers, the connection between:
- Coming under God's "wings" (Ruth 2:12)
- Asking Boaz to spread his "skirt" (Ruth 3:9)
- God spreading His "skirt" to enter covenant (Ezekiel 16:8)

...would remain invisible.

**Lesson**: Always check Strong's numbers. Translation variations hide unified concepts.

---

## Conclusion

**WINGS** (H3671) = **Covenant Covering**

- Coming "under wings" = entering into covenant relationship/protection
- "Spreading wings/skirt over" someone = taking them into covenant
- The cherubim wings cover the ark of the COVENANT
- The tzitzit (covenant reminders) are on the "wings" of the garment
- "Healing in his wings" = healing through covenant

The same word encompasses bird wings, garment edges, and covenant covering — because in Hebrew thought, they are all expressions of the same concept: protective, covering relationship.
